# THE STUDY SPOT ~ Team MANGOCAT
  
## Team members
The members of the team are:
- Aamukta Thogata
- Agrima Khare
- Isha Selvakumaran
- Natalia Ahsan
- Onessa Crispeyn
- Prapti Patel
- Yonna Khatri
- Yuliia Bohak

## Project Overview
**The Study Spot** is a web application designed to facilitate online study sessions between students through virtual study rooms. Users can create and join rooms, share resources and work collaboratively with friends using our software. 

## Deployed Application
The deployed version of the application can be found at *virtual-study-room-phi.vercel.app*.

## Link to Report on Overleaf
*https://www.overleaf.com/read/spwdstnrjkyt#0aa2c9*

## Link to Developers Manual on Overleaf
*https://www.overleaf.com/read/rkzmmqzqhjcr#640879*

## Default Logins for Testing
Please note that in order to log in as multiple users you must use a new incognito window for each additional member, as only one user can be logged in at a time per browser. If you have forgotten to log out before closing the tab please refresh the login page to auto log out of all logged in accounts.

- _Alice Smith_
	- Email: alice@example.com
   	- Password: Password123
- _Bob Johnson_
	- Email: bob@example.com
   	- Password: Password123
- _John Doe_
	- Email: john@example.com
   	- Password: Password123
- _Name Surname_
  	- Email: name@example.com
  	- Password: Password123

## Project structure
The project consists of the following components:
- **Frontend:** React.js
- **Backend:** Django with REST API integration and Websockets
- **Database:** Primarily Django Models, as well as Firebase for storage of multimedia

## Installation instructions
To install the software and use it in your local development environment, you must first set up and activate a local development environment.  Follow these steps. 

From the root of the project:

### 1. Create a .env file for Firebase with the following code

```
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY=AIzaSyCPFx0pzYIwMqsMslp8omjC5hnBp3pTvOA
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=virtual-study-room-db.firebaseapp.com
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL=https://virtual-study-room-db-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=virtual-study-room-db
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=virtual-study-room-db.firebasestorage.app
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=1008040192146
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_APP_ID=1:1008040192146:web:22905256f16b423a445e4b
```
Please put this inside frontend

### 2. Set Up a Virtual Environment
```
$ virtualenv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
```
Note: On windows please user venv\Scripts\activate

### 3. Install Dependencies
```
$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Install React.js Dependencies
```
$ cd application/frontend/
$ npm install
```

### 7. Run the Django Backend
_Note: Run the backend on a new terminal_
```
$ cd application/
```

### 8. Migrate the Database
```
$ python3 manage.py makemigrations
$ python3 manage.py migrate
```

### 9. Seed the Development Database
```
$ python3 manage.py seed
```

### 10. Run the Django Project
```
$ python3 manage.py runserver
```

### 11. Run the React Project
```
$ cd application/frontend/
$ npm start
```

Notes:
#### Run Tests
##### Frontend
```
$ cd application/frontend/
$ npx jest --coverage
```
You can see the full coverage report in the generated html file.
##### Backend
_Note: Navigate back into the virtual environment (see above)_
```
$(venv) coverage run --omit='*/tests/*,*/migrations/*,manage.py' manage.py test
$(venv) coverage html 
```
##### Spotify API Feature
To run the background music / Spotify API feature, you need to log in using an authenticated account. Below is a testing account for checking Spotify. Use the provided details:
Username: ahsannatalia04@gmail.com
Password: HighScore0

_Note: A track needs to be playing on a device logged into the above account for the feature to show. Only premium users have access to playback control._

_Note2: This feature currently does not work on the deployed website, but it works fine on the local version._

#### Unseeding the Database
```
$ python3 manage.py unseed
```

## Sources
- All dependencies are listed in 'requirements.txt'

## AI Usage Declaration
- views.py line 426: significant lines of code in the function "create_multiple_objects()" were generated by ChatGPT
- We used ChatGPT to help write some of our jest tests, as well as to comment a few files
- We followed a YouTube video to start coding the chatbox and playlist functionalities. 

       
